More love
More power
The more of God in our lives.
Yes, please
I mean, who wouldn't want that?
But,
It's easier sung
Then done.
Right?
I mean, we have to be honest. We live in a dark world.
Difficult.
and the pressing season.
It's filled with...
Division and hatred over
Big and small issues in every sphere of life.
As believers, it's
It kind of feels like we live in a world
Hostile.
To our faith and.
And values
It's like we are facing
The impossible.
And how do we experience love? How do we show love in a world like this? Thank you.
That is genuine. I mean, I'm a pastor. I have to tell you, it's just
Tough to figure out.
What we can and should do next, it's kind of...
Paralyzing.
But the reality is that.
The circumstances like ours today are
are not unique.
To us.
In the Old Testament, King Jehoshaphat,
was was
Facing.
Seemingly impossible circumstances.
i mean first off.
His name was Jehoshaphat.
Seriously.
That dude was bullied online. there's no doubt about it.
But this king, Jehoshaphat, was facing
Impossible circumstances, it seemed. Jerusalem, his city, was surrounded by three massive armies, intent on destroying
Employing God's people.
We can learn a lot about
How to face our impossible moment.
From what this king and his people ultimately did.
it's simple but profound it's easy to say
Difficult to apply, but I'm telling you.
If you can engage this reality,
It will change your world.
As they face the impossible, the first thing that happens is the king and the entire city
Prayed to God.
Now, there's a surprise in church, the pastor saying we have to pray first, right? Talk about cliche. Talk about seemingly simple. It's not simple at all.
This is the first start. This is the way to engage.
Pray to God.
2 Chronicles 20, starting in verse 5. Then Jehoshaphat stood up in the assembly of Judah and Jerusalem at the temple of the Lord in front of the new courtyard.
yard.
And said, Lord,
The God of our ancestors?
Are you not the God who's in heaven?
You rule over all the kingdoms of the nations.
Power and might are in your hand.
And no one can withstand you.
The truth?
And this is what prayer helped him engage.
We have no power to face this vast army that's attacking us.
We don't know what to do
Facing this impossible situation.
But then they prayed and they realized, oh,
You're the God of power and might. They're not.
More powerful than you.
You're the king of kings. They can't destroy us apart from you.
So our eyes are on you when facing the impossible, which many of us are facing daily in our relational lives, in our vocational lives, in our personal lives.
Personal lives with our own demons
When facing an impossible situation, the first thing we should do,
You stop looking
At the demon, the demon.
The enemy
The problem.
and turn to God
And pray.
Many of us live in negativity because we're focused on the wrong thing. We're focused on the negative instead of being focused on God.
God, and we should ask him for his direction, his wisdom, his help, and
His intervention, because.
Remember, prayer.
Reminds us that no matter where we are or what we're experiencing,
God is bigger
Than our circumstance.
God is always working for his will and our good.
And God is always fully in control, no matter how out of control our world is.
And you know what happens? It's interesting. When we're looking at the enemy, the vast army's coming at us.
It fills us with fear.
Anxiety, stress, it makes us make bad choices to try and escape and even self-medicate and on and on. But when we.
Look to him.
Instead of leading to anxiety and stress and bad choices,
It leads to what we've been experiencing here.
Worship.
The second thing the king
He did. With all the people of God. Amen.
They praised
God.
So they started with prayer, saw him instead of the problem.
Saw that he was bigger than the problem.
And then they started praising him instead of cowering in fear. Look at 2 Chronicles 20:18. Jehoshaphat bowed down with his face to the ground, and all the people
All the people Judah and Jerusalem fell down in worship before the Lord. Verse 14.
after consulting the people joshua had appointed men to sing to the lord and to praise him.
For the splendor of God's holiness,
This is the operative part of the sentence.
As they went out at the head of the army,
Now, I don't know if you realize what's going on here, but.
Jehoshaphat said, I've got a solution for our problem.
we've got these vast armies coming at us and instead of leading with our soldiers and our tanks
We're going to put a choir in front of the army.
And the soldiers were going, yeah, baby, take them down. That's right. But.
Can you imagine trying to recruit a choir? here's what we're going to do. we're going to put you in front of the marines, in front of the tanks.
And we're going to let you sing to Jesus. That's exactly what's going on here. Crazy.
Here's what they say.
Give thanks to the Lord for his love endures forever. It sounds crazy to do this.
But as they began to sing and praise,
The Lord set ambushes against the men of Ammon and Moab and Mount Seir, who were invading Judah.
And they were defeated if Jehoshaphat had led with his armies.
What would have happened?
They would have fallen.
But because he led with prayer and praise,
Had an army?
God won the victory.
Here's what I think we failed. Okay, I should stop including you. Here's what I failed.
To realize.
Praise stems from recognizing God,
As bigger than our circumstances.
The reason I don't praise well
is because I see my circumstances as bigger than anything.
Praise stems from recognizing that God is good.
No matter
What bad I'm experiencing. Pray stems from understanding that no matter how out of control life seems, God is still
Others still fully in control.
And so can I tell you what this makes, praise?
It makes praise our most powerful weapon.
The more we praise God for who he is and what he's done,
The bigger he becomes to us, and the smaller our problems become.
When we praise God, our faith grows, and we're able to claim and experience the power of God and his promises. And this is why we believe,
I'm not going to
We should weekly get together
No matter what we're experiencing.
And pray and praise.
Because the problems get smaller.
Our faith grows bigger.
And we win more and more victories in our lives.
So for believers, the best way to fight our battles,
It is by allowing God to fight our battles.
And third
The king and people.
In the face of the impossible,
proclaimed God's victory.
2 Chronicles 20, I'll start with verse 27. Then, led by Jehoshaphat, all the men of Judah and Jerusalem returned joyfully to Jerusalem, for the Lord had given them cause.
Ours to rejoice over their enemies.
They entered Jerusalem and went to the temple of the Lord with harps and lyres and trumpets. the fear of God came on all the surrounding kingdoms.
When they heard how the Lord had fought against the enemies of Israel, how did they hear about that?
The people of Israel proclaimed the victory of God.
And the kingdom of Jehoshaphat was at peace.
For as God had given him rest,
On every side.
Through prayer,
Praise, and then proclaiming God's victory.
For the world to know God's love and power and faithfulness.
Those of us who've experienced.
Him.
I must proclaim him.
We're living...
In a culture,
Where the people proclaiming the loudest are the people.
Who are the enemies of God and his truth themselves?
It's time that by remembering that God is bigger than our circumstances, and by becoming people of praise and experiencing his victory for sure,
Sure within, if not without.
our voices proclaiming God's victory become louder than the voices who are the enemies of God and his truth we have to proclaim his victory
Thank you.
A world.
Desperately needs to know him.
But can I get more personal? Some of you here.
Right now.
In this moment.
Desperately need to know him.
And we've heard all kinds of things about how.
But can I just put it simply?
You don't have to jump through a bunch of church hoops and a bunch of religious hoops and a bunch of traditional hoops.
All you have to do is what Jahashifa and the people did.
Recognize
That God's real.
And start putting him
At the highest place in your life.
Worshipping him, and then you'll start experiencing his victory.
Let me give it to you in Jesus' words. In Revelation 3.20, he said, Behold, I am a man of
I'm standing at the door of your life, knocking.
Where's God?
He's knocking
On the door of your life.
And all you have to do
Is open the door.
And when you do.
You'll start experiencing
What you've been missing, because without him, as we sang earlier,
we're lost.
No air.
No bread.
Desperate.
But with him we experience life
And life to the full.
Would you bow with me in a word of prayer?
Whether you're already a follower of Jesus or not,
The lostness,
The fear,
The negativity of our life stems from
Looking at...
The problems, the guilt,
Instead of God himself.
And right now, I just want to invite you to pray with me. Take my words in this prayer and make them yours, inviting them into your life.
Just say Jesus.
I know you're knocking right now.
And I know I need you.
And so I'm...
Looking to you by faith.
I'm opening the door of my life to you by faith.
I'm giving you my sin and my guilt and my darkness
And I'm trusting your death on the cross to forgive me?
And your resurrection to give me new life.
Save me.
Make me new.
In Jesus' name.
Amen.
So remember,
As you face the impossible.
As you face the difficulties of this life,
Prayer
Praise.
and proclamation is what Jehoshaphat did when facing
The impossible.
It's how he fought his battle.
And it's how we should fight
Our battles
Today.